facts.md, before:

# Facts About Amazon
This is a markdown file with an in depth history of many morally wrong practices at Amazon. This list is very much not complete, and at the end I have included my sources.

Some of these sentences are going to sound very similar to those found on [Amazon's Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_(company)), as that is because it is where I found the sources and information for much of this.

## Controversies

### Environmental Impact:
In 2018, 44.4 million tons of CO2 we're emitted by amazon.<sup>[1]</sup> As part of the Global Climate strike, over 1,800 employees in 14 countries walked out in September 2019 to protest the impact and lack of action taken against climate change.<sup>[2]</sup> These workers also petitioned the company and it's now ex-CEO (Jeff "Knockoff-and-Shittier Dr. Evil" Bezos) to stop donating to politicians and lobbyists who deny the existance of climate change, to stop working with fossil fuel companies in accelerating oil extraction from the earth, and to be carbon-zero by 2030.<sup>[3]</sup><sup>[4]</sup>

While amazon has introduced Shipment Zero to have 50% of all amazon shipments to be carbon neutral by 2030, but it only covers 50% of shipments and the overall carbon emissions by Amazon will most likely grow overall due to Amazon's growth in general.<sup>[5]</sup>

Jeff "Knockoff-and-Shittier Dr. Evil" Bezos has also pledged to be carbon zero by 2040, but that is still almost 20 years away at this point.<sup>[6]</sup>

As a contradiction to Amazon's pledges to fight climate, they also fund climate change denial groups and politicians such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and Jim Inhofe.<sup>[7]</sup><sup>[8]</sup>

### Counterfeit, Unsafe and Discarded Items
Amazon has been known to sell and ship counterfeight items, from both third-party fulfillers and their own warehouses.<sup>[9]</sup> Some of these counterfeight products have been found to be fire hazards, espescially ones marketed to be Apple Chargers.<sup>[10]</sup><sup>[11]</sup> One other thing to note is that the existance of these items isn't simply tied to high ticket items, but small and cheap ones as well.<sup>[12][13][14]</sup> Last, but certainly not least, some of these counterfeight items were copies of items from small businesses and artists without their permission at a large scale.<sup>[15]</sup> 

In terms of unsafe and low quality items, many of the "Amazon's Choice" are low quality, have many customer complaints, and are also deemed to be the subject of review manipulation as Buzfeed reported in June of 2019.<sup>[16]</sup>

In August 2019, The Wall Street Journal, found more than 4,000 items which had either been banned by federal regulators, were declared unsafe by federal agencies, and/or had misleading labels.<sup>[17]</sup>

Following the Buzzfeed and WSJ reports, letters were sent to Bezos regarding the counterfeight items (U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal and Bob Mendex) and the unsafe items (aforementioned Senators along with U.S. Senator Ed Markey) in September of 2019.<sup>[17]</sup><sup>[18]</sup> 

Later that year, the WSJ also reported on the occurance and ease of selling items retrieved from dumpsters and reporting them as being new. Additionally, these items we're being obtained from clearance sections, thrift stores, and pawn shops by sellers to use as stock.<sup>[19]</sup><sup>[20]</sup>

Due to a replacement battery bought by a Californian off of Amazon giving her 3rd degree burns, an appeals court in California ruled Amazon could be held accountable for unsafe products sold on the site.<sup>[21]</sup>

### sources
|My Source Num|Wikipedia Source Num|
|-|-|
1|170
2|171
3|172
4|173
5|174
6|175
7|166
8|167
9|179
10|180
11|181
12|182
13|183
14|184
15|185
16|187
17|188
18|189
19|190
20|191
21|192

Commit message:

Tax Avoidance (1) and Trade Union Opposition (1)

facts.md, after:

# Facts About Amazon
This is a markdown file with an in depth history of many morally wrong practices at Amazon. This list is very much not complete, and at the end I have included my sources.

Some of these sentences are going to sound very similar to those found on [Amazon's Wikipedia page](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Amazon_(company)), as that is because it is where I found the sources and information for much of this.

## Controversies

### Environmental Impact:
In 2018, 44.4 million tons of CO2 we're emitted by amazon.<sup>[1]</sup> As part of the Global Climate strike, over 1,800 employees in 14 countries walked out in September 2019 to protest the impact and lack of action taken against climate change.<sup>[2]</sup> These workers also petitioned the company and it's now ex-CEO (Jeff "Knockoff-and-Shittier Dr. Evil" Bezos) to stop donating to politicians and lobbyists who deny the existance of climate change, to stop working with fossil fuel companies in accelerating oil extraction from the earth, and to be carbon-zero by 2030.<sup>[3]</sup><sup>[4]</sup>

While amazon has introduced Shipment Zero to have 50% of all amazon shipments to be carbon neutral by 2030, but it only covers 50% of shipments and the overall carbon emissions by Amazon will most likely grow overall due to Amazon's growth in general.<sup>[5]</sup>

Jeff "Knockoff-and-Shittier Dr. Evil" Bezos has also pledged to be carbon zero by 2040, but that is still almost 20 years away at this point.<sup>[6]</sup>

As a contradiction to Amazon's pledges to fight climate, they also fund climate change denial groups and politicians such as the Competitive Enterprise Institute and Jim Inhofe.<sup>[7]</sup><sup>[8]</sup>

### Counterfeit, Unsafe and Discarded Items
Amazon has been known to sell and ship counterfeight items, from both third-party fulfillers and their own warehouses.<sup>[9]</sup> Some of these counterfeight products have been found to be fire hazards, espescially ones marketed to be Apple Chargers.<sup>[10]</sup><sup>[11]</sup> One other thing to note is that the existance of these items isn't simply tied to high ticket items, but small and cheap ones as well.<sup>[12][13][14]</sup> Last, but certainly not least, some of these counterfeight items were copies of items from small businesses and artists without their permission at a large scale.<sup>[15]</sup> 

In terms of unsafe and low quality items, many of the "Amazon's Choice" are low quality, have many customer complaints, and are also deemed to be the subject of review manipulation as Buzfeed reported in June of 2019.<sup>[16]</sup>

In August 2019, The Wall Street Journal, found more than 4,000 items which had either been banned by federal regulators, were declared unsafe by federal agencies, and/or had misleading labels.<sup>[17]</sup>

Following the Buzzfeed and WSJ reports, letters were sent to Bezos regarding the counterfeight items (U.S. Senators Richard Blumenthal and Bob Mendex) and the unsafe items (aforementioned Senators along with U.S. Senator Ed Markey) in September of 2019.<sup>[17]</sup><sup>[18]</sup> 

Later that year, the WSJ also reported on the occurance and ease of selling items retrieved from dumpsters and reporting them as being new. Additionally, these items we're being obtained from clearance sections, thrift stores, and pawn shops by sellers to use as stock.<sup>[19]</sup><sup>[20]</sup>

Due to a replacement battery bought by a Californian off of Amazon giving her 3rd degree burns, an appeals court in California ruled Amazon could be held accountable for unsafe products sold on the site.<sup>[21]</sup>

### Tax Avoidance
In 2019, Fair Tax Mark repoprted that Amazon's effective tax rate between 2010 and 2018 was only 12% accross China, Germany, Poland, South Korea, France, Japan, Ireland, Singapore, Luxembourg, Italy, Spain, the UK, the US, and Portugal.<sup>[22]</sup><sup>[23]</sup> Amazon refuted this by saying they paid an effective tax rate of 24% during this time period, though this still heavily contrasts the 35% tax rate in the US, the country which made up approximately 68% of their sales in 2018.<sup>[23]</sup><sup>[24]</sup>

### Trade Union Opposition
In both the US and UK, Amazon has opposed and prevented efforts to unionize. After a union drive in 2001, 850 employees were layed off, which subsequently caused the Washington Alliance of Technological Workers to accuse the company of violating union laws. Even though the Union claimed Amazon managers subjected employees to intimidation and heavy propoganda, Amazon denied any link between the employees being fired and their unionization efforts.<sup>[25]</sup>

In 2001, Amazon UK hired a management consultant from the US, The Burke Group, to assist in defeating the unionization efforts of the Graphical, Paper, and Media Union in their Milton Keynes distribution depot.<sup>[26]</sup>

In 2018, internal training videos revealed that Amazon's stance was "not anti-union, but not neutral", as they believe unions aren't in the best interest for their share-holders or associates.<sup>[27]</sup>

Two years later in 2020, leaked internal documents we're leaked revealing that at over 510 locations, Amazon's grocery store chain Whole Foods had tracked the likelyhood of each location to unionize. They took in factors such as racial and ethnic diversity, how poor the situated community was, proximity to other unions to determine what they called a "unionization risk".<sup>[28]</sup><sup>[29]</sup><sup>[30]</sup>

During the Bessemer, Alabama unionization efforts in April of 2021, the National Labor Relations Board found that Amazon illegally fired two employees trying to organize.<sup>[31]</sup> Additionally, the Retail, Wholesale, and Department Store Union asked for a hearing from the NLRB about whether Amazon created "an atmosphere of confusion, coercion, and/or fear of repraisals."<sup>[32]</sup>

### Sources
|My Source Num|Wikipedia Source Num|
|-|-|
1|170
2|171
3|172
4|173
5|174
6|175
7|166
8|167
9|179
10|180
11|181
12|182
13|183
14|184
15|185
16|187
17|188
18|189
19|190
20|191
21|192
22|193
23|194
24|https://press.aboutamazon.com/news-releases/news-release-details/amazoncom-announces-fourth-quarter-sales-20-724-billion
25|206
26|207
27|208
28|209
29|210
30|211
31|212
32|213
